Answers to chapter 2 review questions

01. What is computer programming?

 A: Computer Programming is the art of communicating algorithms to
    computers.

02. What is an algorithm?

 A: An algorithm is a computational procedure whose steps are
    completely specified and elementary.

03. What is the purpose of a computer program?

 A: The purpose of a computer program is to give instructions to a
    computer on how to perform some specific data processing task.

04. Explain the difference between a system program and an application
    program.

 A: System programs are programs that come with your computer system to
    make the computer easier to use.  Application programs are programs
    written to perform some specific data processing task.  System programs
    are there to support the creation and running of application programs.

05. List the three steps that most computer programs perform to
    accomplish their task.

 A: 1) Input data.
    2) Process the data.
    3) Produce results of processing as output.

06. What are some popular programming languages?

 A: Pascal, BASIC, C, C++, C#, COBOL, Fortran, Java, ...

07. List the steps involved in writing a computer program.

 A: 1) Create the source code.
    2) Compile the source code.
    3) Execute the compiled program.
    4) Debug the program.
    5) Repeat steps 1 through 4.

08. Name  some of the files created during the programming process and where
    they are stored.

 A: a) source code file 
    b) byte code file
    They are all stored on the computer's disks.

09. What's the difference between a compiler error and a runtime error?

 A: Compiler errors must be fixed before the program can be run; runtime
    errors don't occur until the program is run.  Compiler errors are mistakes
    in using the syntax and semantics of the language; runtime errors are
    mistakes in design and logic.

10. Explain the difference between a programming language and a development
    environment.

 A: A programming language is defined by the syntax and semantics of its
    language statements;  a development environment is a collection of
    utility programs that help you write, compile, run, and debug computer
    programs written in the specific language.

